seems a little weird but very few people
can
actually digest milk the thing is
there's some special enzyme let's call
it a little helper
that breaks down the sugars any milk has
when people grow up they run out of this
enzyme and
only a little over 30 percent of all
people retain some of it
[Music]
our brain can store only seven bits in
its short-term memory
don't even try to compare your brain
with a phone capacity not even the one
you had back in 2005
a mere bite is eight bits that's why you
can't even learn a phone number by heart
[Music]
our short-term memory functions just
like a chalkboard
you can get some info but sooner or
later you run out of space
to check your working memory capacity
try this test
ask a friend to write a list of ten
words and read it to you
most people recall seven or fewer items
from the list
working memory is an essential thing
that we need to perform
almost any everyday activity
including basic conversations navigating
in the city and even trying to copy the
moves from a workout video
if you wear a hat it actually warms your
hands and even feet
with a hat the heat is basically trapped
inside and it circulates
all over your body including toes
finally good news fingernails grow
faster than toenails
so you can officially cut the toenails a
bit less often
i don't really like to bend to take care
of those claws on my feet
if you're sleeping it doesn't mean that
your whole body rests
in fact sometimes your brain has to work
even harder when you're asleep
it needs to process tons of information
and reports
usually take a lot of time
humans can't multitask it's true
we need time to switch from one task to
another but if we try to tackle several
things at the same time
it's not going to be very productive
now you're most likely to be unable to
isolate your ring finger
every time you move your pinky or the
middle finger you'll move the ring
finger too
the ability to isolate it is hereditary
when you stretch out your arms the
distance between the tips of your
fingers
is almost equal to your height
[Music]
now it's not true that people can't
touch the nose with their tongue
superpower is called the gorelin sign
and about 10 percent
worldwide can perform it
try this one lift your right foot and
start rotating it in a counterclockwise
direction
try to write the number six with your
big toe in the air
now check the direction your foot's
moving it's moving in the opposite
direction
because to write the number six you need
to make a counterclockwise movement
people with double jointed thumbs can
bend them backwards
look super unusual and very few people
can do that
still it's totally okay it doesn't hurt
to bend a thumb this way either
[Music]
hey next time you're talking to a friend
try to breathe in through your nose
don't pause to inhale try to do it in
the middle of a sentence while speaking
that can be rather tough only about one
percent can do that
and they're usually musicians
our brain is actually pretty large
almost as large as a pillowcase
it's squeezed into a relatively small
head just because it's very wrinkly
if you could spread it out you'd see how
brainy you really are
we're made of teeny tiny cells to see
just how small those cells are
imagine that 10 000 of them could fit
easily on the head of a pin
you could literally glow at night many
fish
algae and fungi are bioluminescent and
so are you
turns out that human beings can emit
life
nope your friends aren't going to ever
see that without special tools
so you can't really brag
it actually takes a bit longer to start
a new habit it's not 100
true that 18 or 21 days are enough as
many people think
the process of getting a new habit can
take up to 254 days
but on average it takes around 66 days
for a new habit to become
automatic if you want to become
a tiny bit happier try spending some
money on
others people are social creatures and
we used to need
others help to survive our brain
developed a reward system
when we do something positive for others
we get oxytocin
one of the happiness hormones
now when you're asleep you won't smell
anything nasty
the thing is that your sense of smell
deactivates at night
if there's some really terrible smell in
your bedroom you won't even be bothered
it's been believed for a long time that
a person could distinguish more than 10
000 smells a recent research showed that
people were able to distinguish
more than a trillion smells we also
remember them better than anything else
and smells can even evoke some distant
memories
tomatoes have more genes than humans
this shouldn't concern you though
because it's not the number of genes
that matters but the complexities
of their connections fingernails don't
only help us catch
random tiny objects and peel the
stickers off
if you didn't have a rigid structure
against which to press
you wouldn't be able to judge how firmly
to hold anything
now your toes are the humble helpers
they carry about
forty percent of your weight if you've
ever heard that humans don't really need
their toes
don't believe it they're also the main
pushers when you walk
we've got two really fast muscles they
control the eyelid closing
in fact they're the fastest muscles in
our body eyes are fragile and need
protection
that's why when the reflex is triggered
these muscles shut the eyes within about
100 milliseconds
that's not more than 0.1 seconds
[Music]
if you find hairs in the bath after
having a shower
it doesn't mean you're going bald this
is normal
because an average person sheds 40 to
150 hairs per day
baldness becomes noticeable after you've
lost more than 50 000 hairs
we recognize only purple blue green
yellow and yellow red colors
everything else is a combination of
these three it's impossible to calculate
how many of these combinations the human
eye sees
because every single person has slight
vision differences
but it's about one million combinations
on average
all the hair you see on your head is
only about 10 to 15 percent of
all the hair you've got this hair is in
its
resting phase and it either doesn't grow
or sheds
eighty to ninety percent are actually
growing at any given time
retinal scanning is more reliable than
fingerprint scanning
the fingers have about 40 unique
characteristics and the eye
has 256.
we feel about 80 percent of the taste of
any food
thanks to the nose and its ability to
recognize odors
if you hold your nose while eating you
will taste almost nothing
you might have a chocolate bar or smoked
fish in your mouth
there will be no difference for you
your nose doesn't just help you breathe
and catch odors
it filters the air for sensitive throats
and lungs
if we inhale dry air the nose moistens
it
cools it and heats it if it's necessary
also the nose
cleans the air from dirt hey where do
you think boogers come from
[Music]
the human eye has some resemblance with
a car engine
they both need various liquids to work
properly
an engine needs oil lubrication and an
eye needs tears
in order to work well the tears should
be thoroughly distributed
all over the eye that's why we blink up
to twenty thousand times a day
so an eyelid is a bit like a windshield
washer
we can accidentally digest small objects
such as plastic items
glass coins and many other small objects
they'll make their way through the
digestive tract within 48 hours
see you later we can digest plastic in
case of emergency
and in tiny quantities but the human
digestive system
can't really bear grass grazing animals
have special teeth
and several stomach sections to process
raw leaves and grass
well we have none of that equipment
that's why we have cows
ever wondered why you feel so sleepy
after lunch
well that's because your circadian
rhythms which have 24-hour cycles
demand you have a nap after seven hours
of being awake
and food just adds to this effect
when you crave a snack it's your brain
sending you a signal
that you're lacking some vitamins or
minerals you probably don't want candy
as bad as you think you do
so just have a couple of nuts instead no
not me